I want to do
something original. Unique!
You could paint
your perfect painting, Pablo.
These paintings, they
were the best work I've ever done.
I've had my work destroyed before.
And the Nazis have labeled
every bit of it as degenerate.
It is extraordinary, Pablo.
It's a gift, Uncle.
To thank you for everything
you've done for me.
I made to vow to God that if he let
Conchita live I would
give up painting.
God knew I could
never keep my promise.
So, he punished me. He took her.
The roses are exquisite, Hervé.
Thank you, Monsieur.
There are thorns. Be careful.
Never.
Who is this woman, Pablo?
I am Dora Maar. And
you must be Marie-Thérèse.
I will never be bored by you.
My name is Carles Casagemas.
What is yours?
Picasso.
Picasso and I, we are the future.
I don't understand you, Francoise.
I want to be a painter.
You will become a lawyer.
Do I make myself clear?
Franco and his
fanatics are winning the war.
Franco has Hitler and the
Nazis on his side, Pablo.
We need you on ours.
I know you didn't want to make
a painting for the Spanish Pavilion,
but now you must.
I am going to need a very big canvas.
I'm getting my family to safety.
Guernica made the Nazis very angry.
You have children. Women you love.
Some things are more
important than art.
Not to me.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Subtitle sync and corrections by
awaqeded for www.addic7ed.com.
Francoise?
Momma?
The Germans have crossed the border.
We must hurry.
Your father is waiting for us
at the harbor in Saint-Malo.
Oh!
Papa!
Francoise.
Madeleine. Thank God.
Where are they all going?
The Germans have closed the harbor.
So we could've
been in England days ago?
But no, you insisted
Francoise take this
stupid exam, and now we're prisoners?
We are not prisoners.
We are French citizens.
Yes. With Nazi monsters.
That was Hervé, calling from Tremblay.
German troops have
commandeered the house.
Bastards.
They think they can just
take whatever they want.
They do have guns and tanks.
And it could have been much worse.
Maya and Marie-Thérèse
could have been there.
Get the car.
Pablo, it's 300 miles.
Then we better get on the road.
And what are you
going to do when we get there?
Ask the Nazis politely to
give you back your house.
I don't care about the house.
Then what?
We are gonna steal my art.
Put as much as you can in the car.
The rest in Hervé's truck.
Hurry!
You should've seen it, my love.
We were a band of gypsies,
picking the Nazis clean.
What if you'd been caught?
Oh, impossible.
No, my African masks protect
me against all evil spirits.
This isn't a joke, Pablo.
They might have killed you.
But they didn't. Did they?
So you saved your paintings?
Now, we should go.
Go? Where?
To America. It's too dangerous here.
Huh.
So, when the fascists were far away
in Spain, y-you wanted to fight them.
You wanted me to paint Guernica.
And now that they are on our doorstep,
y-y-you just want to run away?
Take it. Go on.
Play that game you played
the night we first met.
Spread your fingers apart and
drive the blade between them.
Pablo, please...
Even when you missed and
drew blood, you didn't flinch.
I was drunk.
You were fearless.
You do what you want.
But I am going back to Paris.
Come with me, Carles.
Show Manach some of your work.
Nonell says he has a
soft spot for Spaniards.
Mmm. Well, you be the picador.
Soften up the bull.
And when you've weakened him,
I'll come in for the kill.
I will get it.
You're onto something,
and clearly I am not.
Oh, uh, I'm looking for Pablo.
You must be Pallarés.
I see you've found our tailor.
Manuel, I'm so
glad you're finally here.
Where were you?
You were supposed to
meet me at the station?
Ah, I lost track of the time.
I can see why.
Pallarés, say hello to Odette.
Antoinette?
Lovely to meet you.
And Germaine.
We'll make coffee.
Friends of Nonell's.
Mm.
They were here when we arrived.
We didn't think it was
polite to ask them to leave.
No, of course not.
Since Pablo prefers Odette,
I'll have to satisfy the other two.
But I suppose I could find it in
my heart to lend you Antoinette.
Is he serious?
Welcome to Paris.
What do you think?
Spanish painters are as
common as mud in Paris these days.
Very well, then.
I will find someone who
likes the common touch.
I'll take three on consignment.
See what I can do. No promises.
I'll give you 100 francs.
For all three of them.
Hmm, I don't know, Berte.
Young Spaniards are all
the rage these days.
If you had another buyer,
you would not have come to me.
Now tell me, what is he like?
This, Picasso.
Small. Intense.
And exclusive to me, in
case you're wondering.
It wasn't easy.
But I managed to sell all three.
Quite an achievement.
Considering Spaniards
are as common as mud.
After my expenses and commission,
you've earned yourself 50 francs.
Or, I could give you
150 francs every month.
In return, I own
everything you produce.
Everything?
You keep the stipend
whether I sell the work or not.
The risk is entirely mine.
This is the way the art business
is conducted in Paris, Picasso.
Ask around, it's more than fair.
Can you pay in advance?
To Picasso!
To Picasso! Picasso.
Let's dance.
I am in love with Germaine.
You're drunk.
True. But I'm also quite serious.
I can't paint, I can't sleep.
I want to marry her.
Carles, we are not in Spain anymore.
You don't have to marry a woman
or pay her to get her to...
I haven't, gotten her to,
I know, I know, I've-I've boasted,
but the studio's always so crowded.
W-We're never alone.
There's no one at the studio now.
I can't wait anymore.
I can't.
Mmm.
I...
I'll help you, okay.
I, I, I, I, I mean,
I, I, I can't.
Carles...
I'm sorry...
It's so alive.
I can almost smell the
smoke, and the perfume.
Didn't I tell you, Arthur?
He is one of the most exciting young
artists working in Paris today.
How much?
250.
Arthur Huc is one of the most
influential collectors in Paris,
and he thought your painting could
have been a Degas or Lautrec.
You're getting noticed.
Yes.
For copying the styles
of other painters.
It's what sells and I need more.
Don't be so gloomy, Pablo.
You're going to be famous.
What about Casagemas?
Have you seen his
watercolor of Germaine?
It's-It's, uh...
- Show him, Carles.
- Mm-hmm.
I'm sure it's charming, but I
need more paintings from you, Pablo.
Work up some more dancehall scenes.
I see you're an admirer of Matisse.
You think it's derivative.
Maybe my father was right.
About what?
He wants me to be a lawyer.
What's the point of that if there's
no law in the world anymore?
Well, I can teach you what I know.
The first thing is,
there is no shame in
being derivative when
you're starting out.
Your friend Matisse is the best.
For color.
But if you want to learn how to
draw line, you must study Picasso.
Sabartés, I thought you were going
to find me some bronze
for my sculptures.
It seems the Nazis have confiscated
it all to make their shiny bullets.
So, I suppose you couldn't
find me any cadmium red either.
'Cause they need it
to paint swastikas.
No one forced you to stay in Paris.
I would go back to Spain if
that fascist pig wasn't in charge.
To see Pallarés in Horta.
That was the last time in
my life I felt truly free.
Good evening. Is Herr Picasso at home?
You be careful with that.
Is Herr Rosenberg staying here?
No.
Herr Goldstein, perhaps?
I told you last time.
And the time before.
Here there is only Picasso.
So then, you did this?
No. You did.
You know what, Picasso, we
have been very gracious to you.
But we could take away
everything in this room.
And everyone.
I am told your General
Muller is an admirer of mine.
Go ahead. Take me.
You see what happens
when he finds out you
arrested the most famous
artist in the world.
Perhaps it is you who will disappear.
Until next time, Herr Picasso.
It's lovely.
It's not as lovely as you.
You're so silly.
Why? Because I'm in love with you.
Then I happily declare I am the
silliest man in all of Paris!
Carles, don't!
I'm going to buy you that necklace.
With what?
You haven't got a single
centime to your name.
I'll sell my paintings.
The clothes off my back.
I have to go.
Germaine, Germaine, wait, wait. Wait.
I thought we were
spending the day together.
I'm meeting someone.
Who?
- Carles, you're very sweet...
- Who?
But I don't answer to you.
I'm worried about you.
When was the last time
you picked up a brush?
I can't paint.
Not until I know Germaine is mine.
Lend me some money, Pablo.
For what?
There is a necklace that she admired.
Carles.
Please, Pablo, please. Please.
Pablo, please.
Buy some paints instead.
Thank you.
I will pay you back. I will.
Trust me, Madam.
Picasso here is the most
exciting young painter in Paris.
A portrait by him will make
you the envy of your friends.
Can he paint me in
the style of Renoir?
Picasso can paint
in any style you want.
Renoir, Lautrec, Degas...
Very well then.
As long as he makes me look pretty.
I am sorry, Madam.
But I'm not nearly
talented enough to do that.
Pablo!
Pablo! Pablo! Empty your pockets.
What?
How much do you have left of your
stipend after feeding
and housing all those
bloodsucking friends of yours?
I didn't come to Paris
to paint dancehall scenes.
And fat cows in the style of Renoir.
You need to eat.
And to eat, you need
to paint a few cows.
Hey, save some for the rest of us.
Hm. Ah!
Behold, the incomparable Casagemas.
Carles...
I bought you something.
I heard a rumor about you, Carles.
That you put your brush down and
now you cannot pick it up again.
Well, go ahead. Open it.
I can't accept this, Carles.
Why not?
Because I'm not in love with you.
I can change your mind.
No, you can't.
Carles.
Yes...
Carles, relax. Have a drink.
It's the necklace you admired.
Please just let me put it on you.
No, Carles. No, no.
Please. Why? Why not?
Because you cannot satisfy me.
I'm sorry, Carles. I'm sorry.
Oh.
Carles, wait. Carles wait!
Do you know where I can
find something a little stronger?
I heard a rumor about you,
Carles, put your brush down,
and now you cannot pick it up again.
I'm not in love with you.
Because you cannot satisfy me.
Do I actually disgust you that much?
You should have
forgotten about me, Pablo.
You need a warm bath
and a strong pot of coffee.
That's all.
You think that's going to fix me?
Carles.
- I can't pay you what I owe.
- Forget it.
I can't paint.
I-I can't satisfy the woman I love.
What am I going to do, Pablo?
What am I going to do?
He'll be fine once he sobers up.
He can't stay here.
He won't survive it.
So? Cable his parents.
They will put him on a train.
Look at him, Manuel.
He can't travel by himself.
You can't leave now.
Not when you're having
so much success.
Painting portraits of society ladies.
Imitating other artists.
So? Do something different.
It's not that simple!
It is! Remember Horta?
You weren't just copying
some fancy French painters.
Because I'd never seen any.
Exactly. So you
were painting what you saw.
And what you felt.
So go back to doing that.
Something original.
I don't know,
I don't know if I can.
So are you leaving
now to help Casagemas?
Or are you leaving
because you are afraid
that you can't paint
your perfect painting?
I need to finish packing.
At least you'll finish something.
Tell us about Paris, Pablito.
It must have been so exciting.
A feast for the eyes, auntie.
You were a great
success, I suppose? Hm?
I sold quite a few paintings.
Oh, how wonderful.
Look who has come, Salvador.
All the way from Paris.
Happy New Year, Uncle. Ah.
This is my friend, Carles Casagemas.
He's also a painter.
It's an honor, señor.
After the-the
noise and glare of Paris,
we thought a few weeks by the
sea could do us some good.
If you're going to stay in my
house, you're going to need a haircut.
And a shave.
Of course, Uncle.
Uh, but, after paying for the journey,
we're a little short of funds.
Buy yourself a
respectable suit as well.
Charming fellow, your uncle.
To hell with him. And the barber.
I like our hair the way it is.
So, what are we going
to do with all that money?
I have an idea.
I need you to take
special care of my friend.
He's just had his heart broken.
Whoever she is, I'll
make you forget her.
Don't, don't...
don't waste your time.
Hey.
Well?
Well, you were right, my friend.
Much more enjoyable than a haircut.
Show your ration card!
Only one loaf, today!
So what would
you like for dinner tonight?
Maybe some cheese with some soup.
What is it, darling?
Come on. Come on, cherie.
Well, that should be enough
coal to last until
the end of the week.
I'm sorry I couldn't come sooner
but with the curfew and...
It's all right.
Yeah.
We've just missed you.
Haven't we, Maya?
And for you,
princesa, a special treat.
Pablo.
She, she saw two dead
resistance fighters today.
Hanging from ropes.
Huh. You have a pair of scissors?
Uh, yes.
Yeah, ah! You did it!
Look. Pretty. Isn't she?
Oh, you should meet her friends.
Huh! Take it. Eat your apple.
Stay the night.
No, I can't.
Because you are going to see her.
Because I must work.
The Nazis won't
even let you show your art.
I know but, uh, they
cannot stop me from making it.
Good night.
Well hello, little paloma.
Have you come to visit me?
There is fighting in the street.
I was nearly killed by a stray bullet.
Topics such as this no longer matter.
You promised me.
But you know very
well I have tried everything.
Oh, you could
petition the courts again.
You are an important man.
I'm also an old man.
What would be the point
of marrying you now?
Maya is eight years old.
She wants to know why her
papa doesn't eat with us...
Sorry, mademoiselle, but he
is not, mademoiselle, you cannot...
Why is she here?
Get out.
Mademoiselles, please.
Why is she here, Pablo?
Dora, uh, you know very well...
that Marie-Therese
is the only woman I love.
Pablo...
You heard Pablo. You may leave now.
Go. I will you take home.
I knew you'd choose me.
You can go, too.
But...
Yeah, I need to be alone, now.
So, you are finished with Dora.
Of course not.
And Marie-Therese?
I love Marie-Therese.
She's, kind and soft and she
does everything I want her to.
And I love Dora
because she's, brilliant...
Talented.
And yet you treat them so cruelly.
I can't remember the last time either
of them made me want
to pick up a brush.
Or the last time I made a
picture worth looking at.
I need something new.
Ole! Ole!
Ooh.
Oh, he's all right. He's not hurt.
My father had a friend
who used to say,
it was every Spanish man's paradise.
Bullfight in the morning.
Bar in the afternoon.
Whorehouse at night.
Wise man, your father's friends.
Ole!
After he took me here
the first time, I painted.
All in reds and golds.
It was a terrible picture.
But my mother, she thought
it was a masterpiece.
But you haven't painted
anything since we arrived in Málaga.
I'd rather make trouble with you.
Mm.
'Cause you're trying to
help me forget about
Germaine, or because
you're avoiding work?
Ole! Ole! Ole!
Well, it's time
for you to pick up a brush.
And for me to go.
Carles...
You've worked a miracle, Pablo.
I feel better than I have in months.
You cannot go back to Paris.
No, no, don't worry.
I-I'm going back to Barcelona.
To stay with my parents.
Ole!
You came.
You look well.
Oh, you look beautiful.
I am sorry I embarrassed you.
Oh...
And I really wanted
to come and meet you...
No, it-it doesn't matter anymore...
You must know I
am with someone else now.
So we cannot be more than friends.
I hope you can understand that.
I'm happy for you.
Really?
We should get the circus together.
Have dinner, celebrate my
triumphant return to Paris.
Wonderful.
Picasso.
Is that what you're
calling yourself now?
Because you're ashamed
of your father's name?
My name?
Of course not, Uncle.
And you expect me to give you
money to make these obscene journals?
It's not obscene. And it's not a gift.
It-It's an investment.
Pablo. You used to
make beautiful paintings.
And now you what?
A caricaturist?
Don't squander your talent, Pablo.
Alain Cuny is the most talented
actor alive and he just
invited me to dinner.
How did you manage that?
I waited for him
backstage after his matinee.
He thought it was very charming.
And he offered to take
me to the Catalan.
The Catalan, Francoise!
Eh, he probably
just wants to take you to bed.
I certainly hope so.
He must be 40. He's probably married.
So? He's famous and handsome.
But I can't go alone.
You must come with me.
No. There's too much to
do here if we're going to be ready.
Oh!
The Catalan buys oysters
on the black market.
When was the last
time you had oysters?
And champagne?
She's his mistress?
One of them.
How many does he have?
How many women has he painted?
To art!
And to love!
Two endeavors at which
I have failed miserably.
Oh, Carles. Don't say that.
Here, Germaine. Please.
Would you read this for me, please?
The chief of police and
your mother, why would you...
One for you...
What the hell are you doing?
And one for me.
Carles, no!
It was horrible.
The blood. The brains, everywhere.
It is my fault.
What are you talking about?
I never should have believed him.
I shouldn't have let him leave,
or I should've gone with him.
How are you supposed to know?
God. God punished me again.
Because I wasn't painting.
Jesus Christ. Pablo.
Do you really believe
that God is killing
people because the great
Picasso didn't paint
another one of his masterpieces today?
Where are you going?
He's coming over.
Ah.
Do you like cherries?
That's very kind, Monsieur Picasso.
Won't you join us?
Oh, I-I'm afraid I can't.
But I would very much like to
meet your dinner companions.
Ah, well.
Francoise is-is the intellectual.
And Genevieve is the great beauty.
Doesn't she resemble a Caravaggio?
Tell me about
the intellectual one here.
Francoise is a
virtuous woman, I'm afraid.
Ah, but not for religious reasons.
Her objections to lovemaking are
based entirely on Platonic ideals.
And how do they pass the time, your
Caravaggio and your
Platonic philosopher?
We're artists, actually.
Oh.
Uh, you certainly don't look like
any artists I have ever met.
Well, for your information,
Monsieur, we're having
a joint exhibition of
drawings and paintings at a
very well-respected gallery.
Rue Boissy d'Anglas.
Well, I am, I'm also an artist.
Oh, are you really?
You must come and visit me some time.
To see some of my work.
You are going to
paint her, aren't you?
Subtitle sync and corrections by
awaqeded for www.addic7ed.com.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org